# EasyPMI

This repository contains a Python application for estimating short post-mortem interval (*PMI*) using various methods and parameters. 
The application leverages numerical methods and empirical data to provide accurate estimations of the time since death.

## Features
- **Henssge Method**: Estimates PMI using rectal or brain temperature (*We recommend measuring tymanic temperature with a probe*).  
- **Baccino Method**: Estimates PMI using tympanic temperature with a linear cooling model.  
- **Thanatological Signs**: Estimates PMI based on idiomuscular reactions, rigor mortis, lividity, and other post-mortem changes.  
- **Customizable Parameters**: Allows manual input of corrective factors, body conditions, and environmental factors.  
- **Graphical Visualization**: Provides plots for thermal decay curves and comparative PMI results.  
- **PDF Report Generation**: Generates a PDF report of the results for easy sharing and documentation.  

## Installation

### Prerequisites

`Python 3.13.2` (may work with older version of python but was developped with this one)

### Quick start

Clone the Repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/C3PO-IML/EasyPMI.git
```

Install the required Python packages :
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
 
Run the application :
```bash
python .\EasyPMI.py
```
*This will run the streamlit backend server locally*

# Usage 
If run locally, the web interface will be accessible from [http://localhost:8501/](http://localhost:8501/)

- **Enter Parameters**: Use the sidebar to input the necessary parameters such as *tympanic temperature*, *rectal temperature*, *ambient temperature*, *body weight*, *corrective factor*, *body condition*, *environment*, *supporting base*, *and thanatological signs*.

- **Calculate Results**: Click the `Calculate` button to compute the PMI using the entered parameters.

- **Reset Parameters**: Click the `Reset` button to clear all inputs and start over.

- **Download PDF Report**: Click the `Download PDF` button to generate and download a PDF report of the results.

# Code Structure
The code is structured into several packages:

## Core
The computational core which can work independently to provide results from input parameters.
In this project will be found data constants and algorithms.

## StreamlitGUI
The main graphic project which manage the web interface generated by streamlit framework.
PDF generation mechanism will also be found in this package.

## Tests
A set of tests that can detect regression in core application.
Each file describe regression tests for a specific algorithm. 

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you have any suggestions, bug reports, or feature requests, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments
The methods and empirical data used in this application are based on the work of Henssge and Baccino, as well as other forensic science research.
Special thanks to the contributors and maintainers of the libraries used in this project.
Contact
For any questions or support, please contact clement.poulain@chu-brest.fr
